README.md, before:

# Intel Parser

IntelParser is a modular Leaks and Intelligence files parser with threading! 

Available modules/parsers:

* [x] IntelX downloader from API
* [x] IntelX parser (ZIP Downloads)

## Some amazing features

* [x] Download using IntelX API.   
* [x] Parse several file patterns.  
* [x] Utilize multi-threading for faster performance.
* [x] Export/integrate with string filter 
* [x] And much more!  

## Writers

* [x] SQLite3  
* [x] CSV.  
* [x] JSON.
* [x] Elasticsearch.
* [x] And much more!  


## Get last release

Check how to get last release by your Operational Systems procedures here [INSTALL.md](https://github.com/helviojunior/intelparser/blob/main/INSTALL.md)


# Utilization

## Search and download from IntelX

```bash
$ intelparser download intelx --term sec4us.com.br
```

## Parsing locally

```bash
intelparser parse intelx -p ~/Downloads/ix_sec4us.com.br_2025-16-03_17-17-40.zip
```

## Filtering out 

To this example I used 3 terms to filter the data `sec4us`, `webapi` and `hookchain`

```bash
$ intelparser report convert --to-file sec4us.sqlite3 --filter sec4us,webapi,hookchain

WARN Filter list: sec4us, webapi, hookchain
INFO starting conversion...
INFO Convertion status
     -> Elapsed time.....: 00:00:01
     -> Files converted..: 25
     -> Credentials......: 0
     -> URLs.............: 64
     -> E-mails..........: 0
```

## Exporting to ElasticSearch

To this example I used only one term to filter the data `sec4us`

```
$ intelparser report elastic --elasticsearch-uri "http://10.10.10.10:9200/sec4us" --filter sec4us

WARN Filter list: sec4us
INFO starting conversion...
INFO Convertion status
     -> Elapsed time.....: 00:00:01
     -> Files converted..: 25
     -> Credentials......: 0
     -> URLs.............: 64
     -> E-mails..........: 0
```


## Help

```
$ intelparser parse -h


  _____       _       _ _____
 |_   _|     | |     | |  __ \
   | |  _ __ | |_ ___| | |__) |_ _ _ __ ___  ___ _ __
   | | | '_ \| __/ _ \ |  ___/ _' | '__/ __|/ _ \ '__|
  _| |_| | | | ||  __/ | |  | (_| | |  \__ \  __/ |
 |_____|_| |_|\__\___|_|_|   \__,_|_|  |___/\___|_|


Usage:
  intelparser parse [command]

Examples:

   - intelparser parse intelx -p "~/Desktop/Search 2025-02-05 10_48_28.zip"
   - intelparser parse intelx -p "~/Desktop/"
   - intelparser parse intelx -p ~/Desktop/ --write-elastic --write-elasticsearch-uri "http://127.0.0.1:9200/intelparser"


Available Commands:
  intelx      Parse IntelX downloaded files

Flags:
      --disable-control-db               Disable utilization of database ~/.intelparser.db.
  -h, --help                             help for parse
  -t, --threads int                      Number of concurrent threads (goroutines) to use (default 10)
      --write-csv                        Write results as CSV (has limited columns)
      --write-csv-file string            The file to write CSV rows to (default "intelparser.csv")
      --write-db                         Write results to a SQLite database
      --write-db-enable-debug            Enable database query debug logging (warning: verbose!)
      --write-db-uri string              The database URI to use. Supports SQLite, Postgres, and MySQL (e.g., postgres://user:pass@host:port/db) (default "sqlite:///intelparser.sqlite3")
      --write-elastic                    Write results to a SQLite database
      --write-elasticsearch-uri string   The elastic search URI to use. (e.g., http://user:pass@host:9200/index) (default "http://localhost:9200/intelparser")
      --write-jsonl                      Write results as JSON lines
      --write-jsonl-file string          The file to write JSON lines to (default "intelparser.jsonl")
      --write-none                       Use an empty writer to silence warnings
      --write-stdout                     Write successful results to stdout (usefull in a shell pipeline)

Global Flags:
  -D, --debug-log   Enable debug logging
  -q, --quiet       Silence (almost all) logging

Use "intelparser parse [command] --help" for more information about a command.

```

## Execution with ELK benchmark

```bash
#Download IntelX files
$ intelparser download intelx --term sec4us.com.br

# Compressed files size
$ du -skh ~/Leaks_zip/
1.8G  ~/Leaks_zip/

# Extracted files size
$ du -skh ~/Leaks_extracted/
5.9G  ~/Leaks_extracted/

# Number of files
find ~/Leaks_extracted/ -type f | wc -l
    1746

$ intelparser parse intelx -p ~/Leaks_zip/ --write-elastic --write-elasticsearch-uri 'http://10.10.10.10:9200/test'

WARN Execution statistics
     -> Elapsed time.....: 00:29:56
     -> Files parsed.....: 1.721
     -> Skipped..........: 102
     -> Execution error..: 4
     -> Credentials......: 7.452.211
     -> URLs.............: 22.446.484
     -> E-mails..........: 21.817.512

```

![elk indices](https://github.com/helviojunior/intelparser/blob/main/images/elk.jpg "ELK Indices")

See the video bellow using intelparser to parse and ingest IntelX downloaded files to Elastic Search and see it using Kibana

Click at the image bellow to watch the video

[![Watch the video](https://github.com/helviojunior/intelparser/raw/refs/heads/main/images/intelx_sample_cover.png)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qwZNj_mNHMI)

## Use cases

You can see another [use cases here](https://github.com/helviojunior/intelparser/blob/main/USE_CASES.md)

## How-to install ELK from scratch

Follows the how-to from external project (called FileCrawler) [Installing Elasticsearch](https://github.com/helviojunior/filecrawler/blob/main/INSTALL_ELK.md)

## Disclaimer

This tool is intended for educational purpose or for use in environments where you have been given explicit/legal authorization to do so.

Commit message:

Add environment variables Elasticsearch credencials

README.md, after:

# Intel Parser

IntelParser is a modular Leaks and Intelligence files parser with threading! 

Available modules/parsers:

* [x] IntelX downloader from API
* [x] IntelX parser (ZIP Downloads)

## Some amazing features

* [x] Download using IntelX API.   
* [x] Parse several file patterns.  
* [x] Utilize multi-threading for faster performance.
* [x] Export/integrate with string filter 
* [x] And much more!  

## Writers

* [x] SQLite3  
* [x] CSV.  
* [x] JSON.
* [x] Elasticsearch.
* [x] And much more!  


## Get last release

Check how to get last release by your Operational Systems procedures here [INSTALL.md](https://github.com/helviojunior/intelparser/blob/main/INSTALL.md)


# Utilization

## Search and download from IntelX

```bash
$ intelparser download intelx --term sec4us.com.br
```

## Parsing locally

```bash
intelparser parse intelx -p ~/Downloads/ix_sec4us.com.br_2025-16-03_17-17-40.zip
```

## Filtering out 

To this example I used 3 terms to filter the data `sec4us`, `webapi` and `hookchain`

```bash
$ intelparser report convert --to-file sec4us.sqlite3 --filter sec4us,webapi,hookchain

WARN Filter list: sec4us, webapi, hookchain
INFO starting conversion...
INFO Convertion status
     -> Elapsed time.....: 00:00:01
     -> Files converted..: 25
     -> Credentials......: 0
     -> URLs.............: 64
     -> E-mails..........: 0
```

## Exporting to ElasticSearch

To this example I used only one term to filter the data `sec4us`

```
$ intelparser report elastic --elasticsearch-uri "http://10.10.10.10:9200/sec4us" --filter sec4us

WARN Filter list: sec4us
INFO starting conversion...
INFO Convertion status
     -> Elapsed time.....: 00:00:01
     -> Files converted..: 25
     -> Credentials......: 0
     -> URLs.............: 64
     -> E-mails..........: 0
```

> Note: You can use environment variables `INTELPARSER_OUTPUT_USERNAME` and `INTELPARSER_OUTPUT_PASSWORD` to set elasticsearch credentials.


## Help

```
$ intelparser parse -h


  _____       _       _ _____
 |_   _|     | |     | |  __ \
   | |  _ __ | |_ ___| | |__) |_ _ _ __ ___  ___ _ __
   | | | '_ \| __/ _ \ |  ___/ _' | '__/ __|/ _ \ '__|
  _| |_| | | | ||  __/ | |  | (_| | |  \__ \  __/ |
 |_____|_| |_|\__\___|_|_|   \__,_|_|  |___/\___|_|


Usage:
  intelparser parse [command]

Examples:

   - intelparser parse intelx -p "~/Desktop/Search 2025-02-05 10_48_28.zip"
   - intelparser parse intelx -p "~/Desktop/"
   - intelparser parse intelx -p ~/Desktop/ --write-elastic --write-elasticsearch-uri "http://127.0.0.1:9200/intelparser"


Available Commands:
  intelx      Parse IntelX downloaded files

Flags:
      --disable-control-db               Disable utilization of database ~/.intelparser.db.
  -h, --help                             help for parse
  -t, --threads int                      Number of concurrent threads (goroutines) to use (default 10)
      --write-csv                        Write results as CSV (has limited columns)
      --write-csv-file string            The file to write CSV rows to (default "intelparser.csv")
      --write-db                         Write results to a SQLite database
      --write-db-enable-debug            Enable database query debug logging (warning: verbose!)
      --write-db-uri string              The database URI to use. Supports SQLite, Postgres, and MySQL (e.g., postgres://user:pass@host:port/db) (default "sqlite:///intelparser.sqlite3")
      --write-elastic                    Write results to a SQLite database
      --write-elasticsearch-uri string   The elastic search URI to use. (e.g., http://user:pass@host:9200/index) (default "http://localhost:9200/intelparser")
      --write-jsonl                      Write results as JSON lines
      --write-jsonl-file string          The file to write JSON lines to (default "intelparser.jsonl")
      --write-none                       Use an empty writer to silence warnings
      --write-stdout                     Write successful results to stdout (usefull in a shell pipeline)

Global Flags:
  -D, --debug-log   Enable debug logging
  -q, --quiet       Silence (almost all) logging

Use "intelparser parse [command] --help" for more information about a command.

```

## Execution with ELK benchmark

```bash
#Download IntelX files
$ intelparser download intelx --term sec4us.com.br

# Compressed files size
$ du -skh ~/Leaks_zip/
1.8G  ~/Leaks_zip/

# Extracted files size
$ du -skh ~/Leaks_extracted/
5.9G  ~/Leaks_extracted/

# Number of files
find ~/Leaks_extracted/ -type f | wc -l
    1746

$ intelparser parse intelx -p ~/Leaks_zip/ --write-elastic --write-elasticsearch-uri 'http://10.10.10.10:9200/test'

WARN Execution statistics
     -> Elapsed time.....: 00:29:56
     -> Files parsed.....: 1.721
     -> Skipped..........: 102
     -> Execution error..: 4
     -> Credentials......: 7.452.211
     -> URLs.............: 22.446.484
     -> E-mails..........: 21.817.512

```

![elk indices](https://github.com/helviojunior/intelparser/blob/main/images/elk.jpg "ELK Indices")

See the video bellow using intelparser to parse and ingest IntelX downloaded files to Elastic Search and see it using Kibana

Click at the image bellow to watch the video

[![Watch the video](https://github.com/helviojunior/intelparser/raw/refs/heads/main/images/intelx_sample_cover.png)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qwZNj_mNHMI)

## Use cases

You can see another [use cases here](https://github.com/helviojunior/intelparser/blob/main/USE_CASES.md)

## How-to install ELK from scratch

Follows the how-to from external project (called FileCrawler) [Installing Elasticsearch](https://github.com/helviojunior/filecrawler/blob/main/INSTALL_ELK.md)

## Disclaimer

This tool is intended for educational purpose or for use in environments where you have been given explicit/legal authorization to do so.
